# Docker-based Environment for Ruby, OCaml, and Rust

### CMSC 330 
CMSC 330 is a course offered by the University of Maryland, College Park, Computer Science Department. It is considered a major requirement course for CS and CE majors. Thus, hundreds of students take the course every semester. The course has historically focused on learning three programming languages with differing attributes to learn more about the design of these languages. However, this can also involve installing many dependencies that will not be used after the course is complete. During my time in the course, I took the opportunity to practice in docker by creating an image that had all dependencies I needed to complete course projects. I also experimented with the features of Visual Studio Code, such as extensions for the particular languages and connecting the instance to my docker container. Given how many students take the same (or a very similar) course, I wanted to provide this environment so that other students may benefit from the example and learn more about these features of Docker and VScode for themselves, in addition to improving their experience writing code for the course.

### Getting started
I fully expect that an undergraduate CS student who finds this will have no docker experience. Take a look at the [Wiki](https://github.com/asher9943/cmsc-330-docker-env/wiki) for my explanations and links to tutorials and documentations that can help you learn and take full advantage of the development tools I used here. I can attest that proficiency with docker, docker compose, and VSCode features will be useful in higher level courses and the workplace.


### Disclosures
I (Asher Anand) took CMSC330 in the Fall 2023 semester. The course has has major revisions in the past, and of course this may happen in the future. It is a student's responsibility to ensure that the information being provided here is adapted properly to their particular class. I am also a student of the course, not an instructor or TA. As a result, this is an unofficial environment provided out of a desire to help students gain experience with docker. It is not in any way affiliated with the UMD CS department or CMSC330 instructional team. 

### Academic integrity
I believe strongly in the value of academic integrity. For any students taking this course, taking the time to do your own work on projects will improve your performance in the course but also enable you to learn about features of programming languages that will be useful for the rest of your career. I correctly assumed that I would never use Ruby at work, but learning it has made me a better Python programmer. Though this does provide some course-specific information openly, only Dockerfiles, Docker compose files, and scripts that describe the environment necessary to run course code are included. No project specific information or solutions are given. Therefore, this repo does not violate any academic integrity policies as they were described in Fall 2023. Still, if any member of the instructional team objects to the posting of these materials, please contact me and I will remove them.
